{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset204 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red52\green52\blue52;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c26667\c26667\c26667;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21840\viewh16460\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl341\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs34 \cf0 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iPa95Cx3WoA\
\
https://www.esquire.com/entertainment/tv/a55039/twin-peaks-beautiful-dead-girl-laura-palmer/\
\
https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/pretty-dead-girl-twin-peaks_us_59243d45e4b034684b0fd951\
\
https://www.irishtimes.com/culture/books/our-culture-is-obsessed-with-beautiful-dead-girls-1.3512783\
\
https://broadly.vice.com/en_us/article/evkavz/dead-girls-book-alice-bolin\
\
\
Law & Order SVU\
Pretty Little Liars\
How to Get Away With Murder\
Twin Peaks\
True Detective\
Sharp Objects\
The Killing\
Broen\
The Fall\
Martin Beck novels\
Girl With the Dragon Tattoo\
Criminal Minds\
Veronica Mars\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93the prevalence of their tropes and Minassian\'92s murderous rampage are both symptoms of societal gender roles that, for centuries, have told us that women are meant to serve men. And so, in my simplified theorization: At a time when, in real life, men are increasingly losing their dominance over women, Dead Girl Shows offer an acceptable opportunity to see women in the most extreme state of submission\'97merely a beautiful corpse.\'94\
\
\cb3 implicit desire on the part of both writers and viewers: for women to embody ultimate submission.\cb1 \
\
Similarly, Bolin notes, Harriet Vanger\'97the disappeared woman in\'a0
\i The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo
\i0 \'97is explicitly regarded as a \'93puzzle\'94 for Mikael Blomkvist, the book\'92s journalist investigator. \'93The implication of this choice of vocabulary, if I am being uncharitable, could not be more clear: that women are problems to be solved, and the problem of absence, a disappearance or murder, is generally easier to deal with than the problem of the woman\'92s presence,\'94 Bolin muses. The investigator becomes obsessed with the Dead Girl, and often, that obsession is tinged with a sexual charge that mirrors the killer\'92s desire for murder, she notes.\
\
\cb3 Palmer is little more than a set piece, Bolin points out. She is a canvas on which to paint the character of the male detective investigating her death\'97a \'93neutral arena on which to work out male problems.\'94\cb1 \
\
\'a0\'93Dead Girl Shows\'94 and other similar media that revolve around a woman\'92s murder in an attempt to understand why America is so obsessed with the subgenre\'97and, in turn, learn something new about America\'92s deep-rooted misogyny.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs33\fsmilli16800 \cf4 \cb5 \'93The death of a beautiful woman is unquestionably the most poetical topic in the world,\'94 wrote Edgar Allan Poe, the acknowledged father of the modern detective genre, in 1846.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs36 \cf2 \cb1 \
The theme appears again and again in his poems, most famously in the 1849 poem \'93Annabel Lee.\'94\'a0
\f1\fs33\fsmilli16800 \cf4 \cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 A question that troubles me and should trouble all of us who consume such media: how can we account for or defend our widespread obsession with women who are abused or killed, and whose beautiful dead bodies are often employed only as narrative tools leading to (often male) stories of investigation?\cb5 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs36 \cf2 \cb1  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/inside-the-bizarrely-sensual-venus-figures-once-used-as-anatomical-models_us_5745f976e4b03ede4413a842"}}{\fldrslt \'93Anatomical Venus\'94 }}figures, idealized waxen sculptures tucked into glass cases, used in 18th-century Italy to teach doctors, artists and interested citizens about the human form.\
\
Ana Mendieta\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Culture doesn\'92t just privilege its pretty dead girls. By denying female characters independence, nuance and vitality, so many forms of art and culture create women characters who, even while walking and talking, are virtually lifeless.\cb1 \
\
Why is it that our cultural landscape is so fixated on unconscious female characters? Do we really privilege women most when they lack agency to such a degree that they lack a pulse?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \cb5 Taking care to show the gruesome ends of any and all female victims while depriving most of backstories or wider context. Dead women weren't so much people as they were props.\

\f2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs34 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl341\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
}